{"project": "cadence"}
Project Name: Cadence
Project Title: Interactive Art Installation – Audio-Visual Experience

Overview:An interactive art installation that reacts to users’ movement and creates an immersive audio-visual experience. Built during the IMD Incubator at UMD and showcased at NextNow Fest 2024.

Problem Statement:How might we create a seamless and harmonious experience where users could influence music and visuals through their movements?

Outcome:We used body movements captured by a motion detector sensor to modify and enhance existing music, creating a dynamic and immersive experience.

Role: Lead Designer and DeveloperTimeline: June 2024 – August 2024Tools Used: Figma, Procreate, Blender, Unity, TouchDesignerTeam: Arjav Jain

Inspiration

The idea was sparked while watching the movie Whiplash. I thought: “Wouldn’t it be cool if body movement could create music?” This led to the concept of using motion as a conductor-like input for audio-visual generation.

Research & Discovery

I sketched storyboards and user flows to define how the experience should feel. The goal was to make the interaction intuitive and magical.

Building the Proof of Concept
	•	Used TouchDesigner with Kinect Azure for motion detection
	•	Used Max MSP for music generation
	•	Built a basic theremin-like prototype

Prototyping the Experience
	•	Added audio-reactive particle cloud visualizations
	•	Built projection surfaces using cardboard and white paper
	•	Used Kantan Mapper to map visuals to each surface

User Testing & Iteration

Tested with 10 users. Key feedback:
	1.	Positive Emotional Response – Users described the experience as “magical” and felt like they were “part of the art.”
	2.	Unclear Gestures – Some gestures weren’t intuitive, so we refined them to improve immersion.

Key Learnings

1. Designing New Interaction PatternsCombining familiar gestures with novel interactions led to more intuitive and enjoyable experiences. Iteration was key.

2. Balancing Technical and Creative GoalsWe pivoted from generating music from scratch to modifying existing tracks based on motion. This allowed us to stay within technical limits while delivering a rich experience.

Summary:This project taught me how to innovate within constraints, design intuitive interactions, and create emotionally resonant experiences using immersive technology.